= Change logs for Rudder 2.6

Rudder 2.6 has reached End of Life the in April 2013. This branch is
codenamed ``Clipper''.

This page provides a summary of changes for each version. Previous beta
and rc versions are listed below for convenience.

*Installing, upgrading and testing*

Documentation to Install and Upgrade is available online. The Download
page sums up URLs. We also recommend using the Rudder Vagrant config if
you want a quick and easy way to get an installation for testing.

*Operating systems supported*

This version provides packages for these operating systems:

* Rudder server: *Debian 5, Debian 6, Debian 7, RHEL/CentOS 6, SLES 11,
Ubuntu 11.10, Ubuntu 12.04, Ubuntu 12.10*
* Rudder agent: all of the above plus *RHEL/CentOS 3, RHEL/CentOS 5 and
SLES 10*

== Rudder 2.6.19 (2014-11-18)

=== Bug fixes

==== Webapp - Config management

* Fixed: No tooltip displayed when you add a new section in a Directive
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/5706[#5706])
* Fixed: No groups directory in /var/rudder/configuration-repository
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/5509[#5509])

==== Webapp - Display, home page

* Fixed: Popups buttons may not be accessible after window is resized
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/5492[#5492])
* Fixed: White page with HTTP status: 413: FULL head
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4378[#4378])

==== Techniques

* Fixed: Technique `rpmPackageInstallation' v6.0 stores a file in the
wrong directory
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/5697[#5697])
* Fixed: Permissions may be applied recursively even if not asked to by
``filesPermissions'' Technique
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/5632[#5632])
* Fixed: It’s not possible to update package to latest version
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/5609[#5609])
* Fixed: Packages are not updated correctly on redhat based systems
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/5608[#5608])
* Fixed: Zypper technique says skipping but returns UNKNOWN.
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/5493[#5493])
* Fixed: Generic variables definition forbid `&' character usage
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/5605[#5605])
* Update all techniques to respect normal ordering
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/5306[#5306])

==== Documentation

* Fixed: Technique upgrade documentation is not correct
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/5611[#5611])

==== Inventory (webapp, Fusion)

* Fixed: Non-unique machine UUID mess up collected inventory
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4490[#4490])

==== Webapp - CFEngine integration

* Fixed: Two techniques with the same ID leads to strange error about
git tree ids (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/5614[#5614])

==== Webapp - Node management

* Fixed: Node details is missing plugin extension points
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/5767[#5767])

==== Packaging

* Fixed: We do not depend on apache2 utilities (and need it to use
htpasswd) (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/5599[#5599])

==== Miscellaneous

* Fixed: cf-clerk does not compile with Java 8
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/5657[#5657])

=== Release notes

Special thanks go out to the following individuals who invested time,
patience, testing, patches or bug reports to make this version of Rudder
better:

* Dennis Cabooter
* Matthieu Ca.
* Florian Heigl
* Olivier Mauras
* Alex Tkachenko

This is a maintenance release, part of the ``old stable'' 2.6 branch. It
is recommended to upgrade all pre-2.10 installations to 2.10 as soon as
possible to enjoy the latest features and improvements of a more mature
and stable version.

When we release a new version of Rudder it has been thoroughly tested,
and we consider the release enterprise-ready for deployment. This
release is marked as `old-stable' since a subsequent release (branch
2.10) has proven itself to be `stable'.

== Rudder 2.6.18 (2014-10-06)

=== Changes

=== Bug fixes

==== Techniques - Sys & init promise

* Fixed: Initial promises use yum list installed to check installed
package rather than rpm
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/5567[#5567])

==== Techniques

* Fixed: Rewrite system techniques to use normal ordering on 2.6
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/5547[#5547])
* Fixed: Rewrite techniques to use normal ordering on 2.6
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/5505[#5505])
* Fixed: Rewrite initial promises to use normal ordering on 2.6
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/5497[#5497])
* Fixed: The Rudder logrotate configuration uses the wrong argument to
reload rsyslog on Debian Wheezy
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/5486[#5486])
* Fixed: Add a placeholder for new technique on old versions
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/5463[#5463])
* Fixed: We cannot edit only section of the file with enforce file
content (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/5301[#5301])

==== Inventory (webapp, Fusion)

* Fixed: FusionInventory: Doesn’t display (most) disk sizes - branch 2.6
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/5542[#5542])

==== Documentation

* Fixed: Do not use contrib and non-free
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/5181[#5181])

==== Packaging

* Fixed: Upgrade rudder-agent can fail if cf-serverd/cf-execd fails to
stop gracefully
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4387[#4387])

=== Release notes

This is a maintenance release, part of the ``old stable'' 2.6 branch. It
is recommended to upgrade all pre-2.10 installations to 2.10 as soon as
possible to enjoy the latest features and improvements of a more mature
and stable version.

== Rudder 2.6.17 (2014-08-14)

=== Changes

=== Bug fixes

==== Documentation

* Fixed: Screenshots are not Rudder 2.6 compliant
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/5348[#5348])
* Fixed: Incomplete command to force inventory
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/5205[#5205])
* Fixed: The documentation says there is no Rudder server packages for
RHEL 6 (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/5204[#5204])

==== Webapp - Display, home page

* Fixed: Popup content can be displayed outside of popup if content grow
after initialisation
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/5314[#5314])

==== Packaging

* Fixed: Missing dependency on net-tools for rudder-agent and
rudder-thin (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/5199[#5199,]
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/5380[#5380])

==== Techniques

* Fixed: Technique ``Fstab Configuration'': it empties all options with
Rudder 2.11 (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/5328[#5328])
* Fixed: Technique ``Enforce a file content'' v5.0: post-hook
modification reporting is in ``No answer'' status if the file is correct
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/5318[#5318])
* Fixed: Technique ``Enforce a file content'' v5.0: post-hook
modification reporting is in ``Unknown'' status if we request a mix of
insertion, deletion and/or replacement
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/5312[#5312])
* Fixed: Technique ``User Management'' v3.0: If the password is not set,
the password component is in a ``No answer'' status
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/5239[#5239])
* Fixed: Technique ``Enforce a file content'': post-hook modification
reporting is in ``No answer'' status if we enforce the content of the
file only at creation
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/5208[#5208])
* Fixed: Technique ``Sudo utility configuration'': Incorrect use of
commands without their full path
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/5187[#5187])
* Fixed: Process management technique uses invalid syntax on CFEngine
3.5+ (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/5315[#5315])

==== System integration

* Fixed: Apache documentroot for SLES seems misconfigured
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/5370[#5370])
* Fixed: Authorized network sometimes have invalid values after
rudder-init if you add more than one network
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/5103[#5103])

==== Techniques

* Fixed: Technique ``Set the permissions on files'': We can’t set the
SUID/SGID (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/5325[#5325])

=== Release notes

Special thanks go out to the following individuals who invested time,
patience, testing, patches or bug reports to make this version of Rudder
better:

* Florian Heigl
* Lionel Le Folgoc

This is a maintenance release, part of the ``old stable'' 2.6 branch. It
is recommended to upgrade all pre-2.10 installations to 2.10 as soon as
possible to enjoy the latest features and improvements of a more mature
and stable version.

When we release a new version of Rudder it has been thoroughly tested,
and we consider the release enterprise-ready for deployment. This
release is marked as `old-stable' since a subsequent release (branch
2.10) has proven itself to be `stable'.

== Rudder 2.6.14 (2014-06-12)

=== Bug fixes

==== Techniques

* Fixed: Technique groupManagement: Members of group are enforced at
group creation even if option is not set
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/5001[#5001])
* Fixed: Technique User management: cannot create an user if a group
using the same name already exists
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4270[#4270])

==== Techniques - Sys & init promise

* Fixed: Initial promises on server cause an error to be logged due to
duplicate ``empty_file_before_editing'' setting
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/5003[#5003])
* Fixed: Initial promises for Rudder 2.6 (CFEngine 3.4) cannot be used
when upgrading to 2.10 (CFEngine 3.5)
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4996[#4996])
* Fixed: Windows clients may run the execRun command several times - for
cygwin and plain windows cases
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4975[#4975])
* Fixed: Date/time is not defined on all reports in failsafe.cf from
initial promises
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4966[#4966])
* Fixed: RHEL 3 and 4 don’t report correctly due to ``/bin/date:
unrecognized option `–rfc-3339=second’''
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4963[#4963])

==== Packaging

* Fixed: Package upgrade can fail if /etc//rudder-agent are missing
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/5002[#5002])
* Fixed: rudder-agent build rely too much on CPAN availability
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4965[#4965])

==== Documentation

* Fixed: Installation section is too hard to follow
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4998[#4998])
* Fixed: The documentation gives no examples about role management in
Rudder (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4960[#4960])
* Fixed: Procedure on how to update the Technique Library is invalid
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4822[#4822])

=== Release notes

Special thanks go out to the following individuals who invested time,
patience, testing, patches or bug reports to make this version of Rudder
better:

* Fabrice Flore-Thébault
* Cédric Jardin
* William Ott

This is a maintenance release, part of the ``old stable'' 2.6 branch. It
is recommended to upgrade all pre-2.10 installations to 2.10 as soon as
possible to enjoy the latest features and improvements of a more mature
and stable version.

When we release a new version of Rudder it has been thoroughly tested,
and we consider the release enterprise-ready for deployment. This
release is marked as `old-stable' since a subsequent release (branch
2.10) has proven itself to be `stable'. `Old-stable' also means that
this release has been assigned an `end-of-life' date, in this case
December 2014. See our FAQ for details, on
https://www.rudder-project.org/site/documentation/faq/#what_is_the_versioning_policy.

== Rudder 2.6.13 (2014-06-06)

=== Changes

=== Bug fixes

==== Techniques - System & initial promises

* Fixed: cf-agent slowed by users addition into inventory and displays a
lot of warnings about that
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4932[#4932])
* Fixed: Automatic reparation method for cf_lock. is only checked once
an hour (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4812[#4812])
* Fixed: Reports are not inserted into Rudder because regexp in rsyslog
is too greedy when matching execution timestamp
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4761[#4761])

==== Inventory (webapp, Fusion)

* Fixed: Solaris Node are not correctly identified by Rudder inventory
process (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4701[#4701])
* Fixed: Network interface sharing the ip address are ignored by the
inventory parser
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4883[#4883])

==== Documentation

* Fixed: The documentation entry concerning the ramdisk state directory
gives a wrong mount mode
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4792[#4792])
* Fixed: The documentation entry concerning the ramdisk state directory
gives wrong mount options
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4788[#4788])

==== Miscellaneous

* Fixed: Typo in rudder-commons project, display a warning when
compiling (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4853[#4853])

==== Packaging

* Fixed: Rudder init script may not correctly initialize
policy_server.dat file, resulting in a non functioning Rudder server
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4915[#4915])

==== System integration

* Fixed: rudder agent is restarted by the cron job even if
/opt/rudder/etc/disable-agent is present
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4688[#4688])
* Fixed: A race condition may occur during rudder-server-root
initialisation
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4635[#4635])
* Fixed: The script rudder-init.sh should not output CFEngine execution,
and keep the output of all commands in the log
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4634[#4634])
* Fixed: When multiples cf-execd are running at the same time, agent is
not behaving properly, and node is in NoAnswer state
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4613[#4613])

==== Techniques

* Fixed: policy_server.dat file is not read on Nodes if its size exceed
40 bytes (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4921[#4921])
* Fixed: Permit script check_rsyslog_version to stop if an error is
encountered (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4869[#4869])
* Fixed: CheckGenericFileContent can have several ``repaired'' status on
each of the different component, even is the end state is convergent
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4805[#4805])
* Fixed: The initial promises are missing a class definition for
force_inventory when /opt/rudder/etc/force_inventory is here
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4765[#4765])
* Fixed: The script /var/rudder/tools/check_rsyslog_version will not
work without absolute path of rsyslogd
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4758[#4758])
* Fixed: Technique ``Package management for Debian / Ubuntu / APT
systems'', typo in the option to install an earlier package
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4754[#4754])
* Fixed: Rudder causes RHEL nodes to be blacklisted in RHN due to
intensive yum usage
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3855[#3855])

=== Release notes

Special thanks go out to the following individuals who invested time,
patience, testing, patches or bug reports to make this version of Rudder
better:

* Dennis Cabooter
* Fabrice Flore-Thébault

This is a maintenance release, part of the ``old stable'' 2.6 branch. It
is recommended to upgrade all pre-2.10 installations to 2.10 as soon as
possible to enjoy the latest features and improvements of a more mature
and stable version.

When we release a new version of Rudder it has been thoroughly tested,
and we consider the release enterprise-ready for deployment. This
release is marked as `old-stable' since a subsequent release (branch
2.10) has proven itself to be `stable'. `Old-stable' also means that
this release has been assigned an `end-of-life' date, in this case
December 2014. See our FAQ for details, on
https://www.rudder-project.org/site/documentation/faq/#what_is_the_versioning_policy.

== Rudder 2.6.12 (2014-03-19)

=== Changes

=== Bug fixes

==== Vagrant integration - Dev

* Fixed: On some systems, the install fails because rsyslog-psql ask
insteractive question
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4599[#4599])

==== Techniques - Sys & init promise

* Fixed: Last update detection is broken, causing cron remove cf_lock
database and flood with emails every 5 minutes
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4582[#4582])

==== Webapp - Display, home page

* Fixed: Too many Rules are displayed on the Home page ( 3 system Rules
are included )
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4570[#4570])

==== Packaging

* Fixed: Missing dependencies declaration (rsyslog-pgsql) in debian may
prevents from installing Rudder server correctly
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4569[#4569])

==== System integration

* Fixed: check-rudder-agent script fails to create a new UUID if not
defined and no backup exists
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4607[#4607])

==== Webapp - Reporting

* Fixed: A rare race condition can lead to an error when looking at
compliance while a deployment is in progress
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4559[#4559])

==== Webapp - Node management

* Fixed: When accepting several nodes, one policy generation is
triggered for each of them
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4492[#4492])

=== Release notes

Special thanks go out to the following individuals who invested time,
patience, testing, patches or bug reports to make this version of Rudder
better:

* Cédric Jardin
* Christophe Nowicki
* Alex Tkachenko

This is a bug fix release in the 2.6 series. All installations of 2.6.x
should be upgraded when possible. It is recommended to upgrade all
pre-2.6 installations to 2.6 as soon as possible to enjoy the latest
features and improvements of a more mature and stable version.

When we release a new version of Rudder it has been thoroughly tested,
and we consider the release enterprise-ready for deployment. This
version is declared ``stable'' since it has proven itself to be stable
in production over a period of several months following general
availability of the release.

== Rudder 2.6.11 (2014-03-06)

=== Changes

==== Techniques

* Technique `Group management': Add an option to enforce group content
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4467[#4467])
* Technique `ssh keys distribution': Have several keys per users
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4439[#4439])
* Technique `Generic Variable definition': Allow empty values
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3848[#3848])
* Technique `Group management': Set GID of group
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3843[#3843])

==== System integration

* Add a script to change Rudder policy server IP/host name
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4325[#4325])

==== Techniques - System & init promises

* Improve zypper detection and usage on SLES10 agents
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4449[#4449])

==== Documentation

* Add a section in documentation about sizing of a Rudder server
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4053[#4053])

=== Bug fixes

==== Techniques

* Fixed: Technique `Package Management for RPM systems': Wrong operator
for ``This version or any earlier one''
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4447[#4447])
* Fixed: Technique `Download a file from the shared folder': Error
message when a copy failed using does not explain what actually failed
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4278[#4278])
* Fixed: Technique `RUG / !YaST package manager configuration (ZMD)':
`security-level' option is misnamed `package source policy'
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4128[#4128])
* Fixed: Technique `Package management for APT systems': packages with
suffix :amd64 are not correctly detected
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3830[#3830])
* Fixed: Technique `Download a file from the shared folder': Cannot copy
a file from the shared-folder on the root server
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3581[#3581])
* Fixed: Technique `Group management' v3.0: There is no backup to file
repository when updating /etc/group file
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4471[#4471])
* Fixed: Technique `Download a file from the shared folder': Explanation
about which files will be copied are not correct
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4354[#4354])

==== Webapp - Config management

* Fixed: Newline characters may be missing from archived files in
configuration repository
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4476[#4476])
* Fixed: Can not delete custom Active techniques category
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4392[#4392])
* Fixed: Special characters (ie, accents such as éèùô) are replaced by
``?'' in CFEngine promises
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4381[#4381])
* Fixed: Missing Node Configuration entry in LDAP prevents Rudder from
starting (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4348[#4348])

==== Webapp - Administration

* Fixed: Rudder max days of archived reports retained cannot be
configured from properties
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4401[#4401])

==== Webapp - Node management

* Fixed: Sort in group tree is case-sensitive
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4157[#4157])

==== Inventory (webapp, Fusion)

* Fixed: Inventory with empty CFEngine agent public key cannot be
processed by Rudder raising exceptions
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4518[#4518])
* Fixed: Bios version from inventory is not correctly displayed into the
web interface (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4500[#4500])
* Fixed: Variables from /etc/profile and /etc/profile.d files are not
passed to the inventory environment
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4493[#4493])
* Fixed: When new inventory is processed, hardware Node information may
not be updated
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4440[#4440])
* Fixed: Process start date are not parsed correctly when parsing
inventory file
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4402[#4402])
* Fixed: Process start date are displayed as ``bad format'' in Rudder
web interface (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4400[#4400])

==== Webapp - CFEngine integration

* Fixed: Promises are not generated when Rudder server starts for the
first time (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4532[#4532])

==== Webapp - Reporting

* Fixed: The rsyslog regexp matching executionTimeStamp is too greedy
and could take more characters than it should
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4431[#4431])
* Fixed: Rsyslog filters reports when too many reports arrive
simultaneously
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4281[#4281])

==== System integration

* Fixed: Remove the unnecessary licenses file creation for CFEngine
Enterprise systems in the rudder-init script
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4482[#4482])
* Fixed: Rudder should not complain if the license file for CFEngine
Enterprise is not present
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4481[#4481])

==== Performance and scalability

* Fixed: Optimization on LDAP requests (number of rules, …) from home
page (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4495[#4495])
* Fixed: An unnecessary promise generation is launched right after
making a new archive of the configuration
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4479[#4479])

==== Techniques - Sys & init promise

* Fixed: Log file about non compliant reports is not managed by
logrotate on Red Hat-like Rudder server
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4556[#4556])
* Fixed: Initial logrotate configuration (from initial-promises) does
not include recent fixes
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4551[#4551])
* Fixed: Wrong permissions slapd.log after logrotate
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4445[#4445])
* Fixed: System technique complain when a lot of user are defined on the
system (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4434[#4434])
* Fixed: Cf-execd started by cron is missing environment variables,
making the agent unable to run correctly
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4198[#4198])
* Fixed: Command to restart rsyslog is not correct on Fedora
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4156[#4156])
* Fixed: Commands to check and restart cron daemon on Fedora are not
correct (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4155[#4155])

==== Packaging

* Fixed: rudder-inventory-ldap package should `conflict' with other
!OpenLDAP packages that install /etc/init.d/slapd
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4508[#4508])
* Fixed: rudder-jetty package should `conflict' with other jetty
packages that install /etc/init.d/jetty
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4496[#4496])
* Fixed: The rudder-webapp package can’t be installed on SLES due to a
syntax error in post-inst
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4484[#4484])
* Fixed: Add Fedora related dependencies to rudder-agent to allow it to
build on this platform
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4154[#4154])

==== Architecture - Tests

* Fixed: Connection releasing of test LDAP server is incorrect, leading
to lost of connection
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4464[#4464])

=== Release notes

Special thanks go out to the following individuals who invested time,
patience, testing, patches or bug reports to make this version of Rudder
better:

* Dennis Cabooter
* Fabrice Flore-Thébault
* Michael Gliwinski
* Yvan Masson
* Olivier Mauras
* Christophe Nowicki
* Alex Tkachenko

This is a bug fix release in the 2.6 series. All installations of 2.6.x
should be upgraded when possible. It is recommended to upgrade all
pre-2.6 installations to 2.6 as soon as possible to enjoy the latest
features and improvements of a more mature and stable version.

When we release a new version of Rudder it has been thoroughly tested,
and we consider the release enterprise-ready for deployment. This
version is declared ``stable'' since it has proven itself to be stable
in production over a period of several months following general
availability of the release.

== Rudder 2.6.10 (2014-01-16)

=== Changes

==== Techniques

* Technique ``Download a file from the shared folder'' should display
where the shared folder is located
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4353[#4353])

=== Bug fixes

==== Webapp - Administration

* Fixed: Techniques are not included when downloading zip archive
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4279[#4279])
* Fixed: Size of databases displayed in the web interface are lower than
they really are
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4101[#4101])

==== Inventory (webapp, Fusion)

* Fixed: Without lsb_release installed, RedHat is detected as Scientific
Linux (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4360[#4360])
* Fixed: Inventories containing very long (> 4096) process name cannot
be send to rudder server via CFEngine
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4314[#4314])

==== Webapp - Config management

* Fixed: ``Missing node'' error message in rule compliance when a node
is deleted (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3955[#3955])
* Fixed: In Rule edit form, group tree is sent to the end of the page if
one name is too long
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4175[#4175])
* Fixed: When a Rule is disabled due to an invalid state, some changes
made on that Rule may be overwritten
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4209[#4209])
* Fixed: Exporting groups with same name but in different categories to
another server Rudder is not working
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4149[#4149])

==== Documentation

* Fixed: Incorrect English grammar
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4206[#4206])
* Fixed: Remove unused relay documentation placeholder files
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4267[#4267])

==== Webapp - Display, home page

* Fixed: If a popup is too large for a screen, save buttons can’t be
used (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3795[#3795])

==== Packaging

* Fixed: Rudder server cannot be installed on CentOS and Red Hat 6.5
since dependency `jre' does not exist anymore
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4290[#4290])
* Fixed: Necessary entries in the apache2 sysconfig of SLES systems are
missing (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4280[#4280])

==== Techniques

* Fixed: All techniques should back up all modified/copied files by
Rudder (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4371[#4371])
* Fixed: Technique ``Download a file from the shared folder'':
permissions defaulted to none (mode 0000)
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4368[#4368])
* Fixed: Incorrect detection of empty password/name in `userManagement'
Technique when several user are to be managed
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4347[#4347])
* Fixed: In `userManagement' Technique, the full name is checked only
every 60 minutes, resulting in unknown reports
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4346[#4346])
* Fixed: Change the Path statement in `Enforce a file content' Technique
(all versions)
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4311[#4311])
* Fixed: With initial-promises, error message is not displayed when
policies could not be updated
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4244[#4244])
* Fixed: A Xen Hypervisor on SLES does not make a valid inventory and
can’t be accepted into Rudder since binary path to xenstore is wrong on
SLES 11 and does not exist on SLES 10
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4227[#4227])
* Fixed: It is not possible to add a block content or at a specified
location of a file using `Enforce file content' Technique
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3293[#3293])
* Fixed: Command to restart rsyslog is not correct on Fedora
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4156[#4156])

==== Webapp - Reporting

* Fixed: Reports containing a _ in the ``Policy'' (human readable policy
name) are rejected by rsyslog
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4247[#4247])

=== Release notes

Special thanks go out to the following individuals who invested time,
patience, testing, patches or bug reports to make this version of Rudder
better:

* Dennis Cabooter
* Yvan Masson
* Olivier Mauras
* Christophe Nowicki
* Alex Tkachenko

This is a bug fix release in the 2.6 series. All installations of 2.6.x
should be upgraded when possible. It is recommended to upgrade all
pre-2.6 installations to 2.6 as soon as possible to enjoy the latest
features and improvements of a more mature and stable version.

When we release a new version of Rudder it has been thoroughly tested,
and we consider the release enterprise-ready for deployment. This
version is declared ``stable'' since it has proven itself to be stable
in production over a period of several months following general
availability of the release.

== Rudder 2.6.9 (2013-11-20)

=== Changes

==== Techniques

* Hide by default sections that are not ``mandatory'' within Techniques
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4105[#4105])
* New Technique added: Partition monitoring
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3984[#3984])

=== Bug fixes

==== Techniques - Sys & init promise

* Fixed: The rsyslog version > 5.7.1 drops messages if there is more
than 200 messages in 5 seconds and could lead to `No Answer' status of
all nodes (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4127[#4127])

==== Logging

* Fixed: Disabling workflow functionality should disable change
request, however a log about change request is still displayed
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4143[#4143])

==== Documentation

* Fixed: User manual doesn’t mention RHEL/CentOS 3 support
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4125[#4125])
* Fixed: User manual doesn’t mention Debian wheezy support
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4124[#4124])

==== Webapp - Display, home page

* Fixed: Links to Node in the change request and event log are broken
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4049[#4049])
* Fixed: Typo in `There are no modifications to save' error message
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4043[#4043])

==== Miscellaneous

* Fixed: Rudder-agent upgrade fails if one of the binaries is in use
during upgrade
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4098[#4098],
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3665[#3665])
* Fixed: Error when upgrading from a Rudder server 2.3 if both
policy.xml and metadata.xml were existing for the same techniques
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4088[#4088])
* Fixed: Agent upgrade does not work if /opt/rudder/etc/disable-agent
file exists (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4087[#4087])

==== Packaging

* Fixed: /etc/cron.d/rudder-agent is not installed on Debian/Ubuntu
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4109[#4109])
* Fixed: First inventory sending may not contains UUID
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4147[#4147])
* Fixed: slapd is not always restarted on upgrading, leading to missing
schema update (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4132[#4132])
* Fixed: Apache is not started after reboot on RPM systems
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4126[#4126])
* Fixed: If a node has not cron (or equivalent) installed, then the uuid
or init script are not restored
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4009[#4009])

==== Webapp - Administration

* Fixed: Automatic Technique library updater is not launched.
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4116[#4116])
* Fixed: An error occurs when displaying a change request where a
directive technique was moved
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4030[#4030])
* Fixed: Correct English in ``change message'' pop-ups
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4151[#4151])
* Fixed: Rudder cannot load several plugins at the same time
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3314[#3314])

==== Techniques

* Fixed: Initial Promises were not able to install missing packages
(rsyslog, curl or xen) on Debian/Ubuntu due to missing
`package_patch_command' attribute in promises
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4070[#4070])
* Fixed: Reports of distributePolicy promises is in `Unknown' status
caused by a duplicate reports about `configuration-repository' git lock
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4048[#4048])
* Fixed: Technique `Package management for RHEL / CentOS / (SuSE / RPM
systems' v4.0, 4.1 and 5.0: Incorrect clear of cache of installed
packaged on promises updates lead to have `No answer' states after a
modification of packages in Directive
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4145[#4145])
* Fixed: Remove comma after the promiser from passwordCheck in the
distributePolicy promises
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4040[#4040])
* Fixed: The failsafe of the initial promises cannot update promises
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4025[#4025])
* Fixed: Reporting message that state that curl is missing should be
clearer (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4021[#4021,]
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4166[#4166])
* Fixed: The first inventory made display disturbing error messages
about CPU (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3854[#3854],
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4111[#4111])
* Fixed: There is a typo in Rudder file disclaimer
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4032[#4032])
* Fixed: Reporting is never caught if the Rudder server UUID
(/var/rudder/tmp/uuid.txt) was more than 33 characters long
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4018[#4018])

=== Release notes

Special thanks go out to the following individuals who invested time,
patience, testing, patches or bug reports to make this version of Rudder
better:

* Dennis Cabooter
* Olivier Mauras
* Jean Remond

This is a bug fix release in the 2.6 series. All installations of 2.6.x
should be upgraded when possible. It is recommended to upgrade all
pre-2.6 installations to 2.6 as soon as possible to enjoy the latest
features and improvements of a more mature and stable version.

When we release a new version of Rudder it has been thoroughly tested,
and we consider the release enterprise-ready for deployment. This
version is declared ``stable'' since it has proven itself to be stable
in production over a period of several months following general
availability of the release.

== Rudder 2.6.8 (2013-10-09)

=== Bug fixes

==== Packaging

* Fixed: The logrotate configuration file from Debian/Ubuntu
rudder-server-root is duplicate between the old (rudder-server-root) and
the new one (rudder)
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4026[#4026])
* Fixed: rudder-server-root package should use logrotate.rhel file for
RHEL/CentOS (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4014[#4014])
* Fixed: After upgrading the policy server, the rsyslog configuration is
invalid (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4004[#4004])
* Fixed: The packaging appends the Apache DAVLock configuration at every
package installation / upgrade
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4003[#4003])
* Fixed: Backup process of /etc//rudder-agent in preinst of rudder-agent
RPM should not be made a first install bu during upgrade
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4000[#4000])
* Fixed: The script check-rudder-agent does not repair the Rudder UUID
since the add of backup of /etc/\{init.d,default/rudder-agent
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3999[#3999])
* Fixed: Cannot remove rudder-agent package if CFEngine processes are
not running (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3992[#3992])
* Fixed: /etc//rudder-agent is removed if the package rudder-agent is
upgraded from 2.4.8 on SuSE or RHEL/CentOS
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3997[#3997],
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3998[#3998])
* Fixed: The file /opt/rudder/bin/check-rudder-agent contains a typo
which prevent from relaunching CFEngine processes
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3996[#3996])
* Fixed: Missing file in the 2.6 migration script
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4020[#4020])
* Fixed: /etc//rudder-agent is removed if the package rudder-agent is
upgraded from 2.6.4, 2.6.5, 2.7.1 or 2.7.2 on SuSE or RHEL/CentOS
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3995[#3995])

==== Techniques

* Fixed: Fix our CFEngine standard lib to be CFEngine 3.5.* compliant
but based on modifications of the latest version of it
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4005[#4005])
* Fixed: Remove `owners' attribute from copy_from body in the update.st
file (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4002[#4002])
* Fixed: Technique `User Management' v2.0: It gives no answer on
password component when removing a user
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3845[#3845])
* Fixed: The system Techniques use the wrong logrotate configuration on
RHEL (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4012[#4012])
* Fixed: The logrotate configuration in RHEL does not rotate httpd logs
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/4011[#4011])

==== Documentation

* Fixed: Missing documentation for LDAP authentication with user search
(not direct bind)
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3963[#3963])

=== Contributors

Special thanks go out to the following individuals who invested time,
patience, testing, patches or bug reports to make this version of Rudder
better:

* Cédric Cabessa

=== Release notes

​This is a bug fix release in the 2.6 series. All installations of 2.6.x
should be upgraded when possible. This version of Rudder is in stable
and is already in use on several production platforms with success. You
are invited to upgrade all pre-2.6 installations to it as soon as
possible to enjoy the latest features with a still stable and more
polished version.

The previous release (2.6.8) was not publicly announced as it
unfortunately did not meet our quality and assurance requirements.

== Rudder 2.6.6 (2013-10-03)

=== Changes

==== Webapp - Reporting

* Change rudder sysevents indexes on PostgreSQL
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3988[#3988])

==== Techniques

* Prevent the /etc/cron.d/rudder-agent script from sending unsolicited
e-mails (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3944[#3944])
* Technique ``Package management for RHEL / CentOS / (SuSE / RPM
systems'' v4.1: Backport from Rudder 2.6 to Rudder 2.4
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3919[#3919])
* Technique `Download a file from a shared folder': Be able to exclude
files from a folder copy
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3364[#3364])
* Technique `MOTD Configuration': Add an option to append the (MoTD at
the beginning or the end of the file
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3950[#3950])
* Technique `Manage files and folders': Add local copy action
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3398[#3398])

==== Documentation

* Add advises to separate partitions in server installation section
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3932[#3932])

=== Bug fixes

==== Packaging

* Fixed: Since add of a new file to check CFEngine processes and Rudder
UUID (#3925), the patch for Debian 5 (about tokyocabinet) does not work
anymore for debian/rules
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3976[#3976])
* Fixed: With OpenVZ, cf-agent on the host see all other cf-agent
execution and kills them
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3909[#3909])
* Fixed: Logrotate should use `delaycompress' option
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3922[#3922])

==== Webapp - Reporting

* Fixed: Missing index on DB for ``reports by nodes'' leads to timeout
for node list page
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3674[#3674])

==== Webapp - Administration

* Fixed: Authorized network field are space-sensitive
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3927[#3927])
* Fixed: Missing/incomplete LDAP group support
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3829[#3829])
* Fixed: Package rudder-server-root still install
/etc/init.d/logrotate.d/rudder-server-root on Debian/Ubuntu affects
Rudder 2.4.8, 2.6.4, 2.6.5, 2.7.1 and 2.7.2)
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3981[#3981])
* Fixed: /etc/init.d/rudder-server-root is no more installed on
Debian/Ubuntu (affects Rudder 2.4.8, 2.6.4, 2.6.5, 2.7.1 and 2.7.2)
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3980[#3980])
* Fixed: /opt/rudder/etc/uuid.hive is removed if the package
rudder-agent is upgrade from 2.4.8, 2.6.4, 2.6.5, 2.7.1 or 2.7.2 on
(SuSE or RHEL/CentOS
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3925[#3925])
* Fixed: Upgrading to Rudder 2.4.8, 2.6.4, 2.6.5, 2.7.1 or 2.7.2 may
cause uuid.hive to be removed
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3915[#3915])
* Fixed: The rsyslog configuration deployed at install is invalid
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3914[#3914])
* Fixed: Migration of eventlogs v1 does not work if eventlogs v2 exists
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3906[#3906])
* Fixed: Postinstall script of rudder-inventory-endpoint display a
warning about fail of rsyslog restart at first install on RHEL/CentOS
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3900[#3900])
* Fixed: Change request cannot be accepted: multiline text cause merge
incompatibility
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3967[#3967])
* Fixed: Available options for rudder.batch.reportscleaner.frequency are
not documented in rudder-web.properties
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3940[#3940])

==== Webapp - CFEngine integration

* Fixed: Wrong stringTemplate definition on a Technique result in a
confusing error in the Rudder UI
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3210[#3210])

==== Webapp - Node management

* Fixed: Creating/Modifying a Group to have a criterion of
Software>Release Date will display a datepicker but if we change the
criterion to another one like Software>Name , the datepicker will remain
until the use of Button `Search'
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3911[#3911])
* Fixed: When saving a group without doing any modifications, we have
the dreaded ``server cannot be contacted at this time''
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3904[#3904])
* Fixed: Rudder returns ``Server cannot be contacted'' if a group
criteria is based on a wrong regexp
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3683[#3683])

==== Techniques

* Fixed: The promises can’t be deployed on Rudder 2.4 (typo in
promises.st) (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3968[#3968])
* Fixed: Remove the comma after the promisers from all Techniques
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3871[#3871])
* Fixed: Technique `Package management for RHEL / CentOS / (SuSE / RPM
systems' v4.1: patch_commands have been wrongly backported to 2.4 branch
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3982[#3982])
* Fixed: Rsyslog 5.7.1 drops reports when they come to fast
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3913[#3913])
* Fixed: Technique `Copy file from shared folder': Does not work on root
server (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3581[#3581])
* Fixed: Technique `Package management for RHEL / CentOS / (SuSE / RPM
systems' v4.1: Reportings are in No Answer state
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3965[#3965])

==== Documentation

* Fixed: Documentation is missing some more level 2 headers
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3961[#3961,]
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3957[#3957,]
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3943[#3943])
* Fixed: Some titles were hidden or partially hidden
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3956[#3956])
* Fixed: Update documentation for LDAP integration
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3949[#3949])
* Fixed: Install documentation for Red Hat/CentOS ignores GPG
signatures! (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3941[#3941])

=== Contributors

Special thanks go out to the following individuals who invested time,
patience, testing, patches or bug reports to make this version of Rudder
better:

* Olivier Mauras
* Dennis Cabooter
* Michael Gliwinski (Henderson Group)
* Fabrice Flore-Thébault
* Matthew Hall

=== Release notes

​This is a bug fix release in the 2.6 series. All installations of 2.6.x
should be upgraded when possible. This version of Rudder is in stable
and is already in use on several production platforms with success. You
are invited to upgrade all pre-2.6 installations to it as soon as
possible to enjoy the latest features with a still stable and more
polished version.

== Rudder 2.6.5 (2013-09-06)

=== Bug fixes

==== Webapp - Node management

* Fixed: Node management>Groups screen CSS is broken when opening a
group (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3901[#3901])

==== Packaging

* Fixed: Postinstall script of rudder-inventory-endpoint display a
warning about fail of rsyslog restart at first install on RHEL/CentOS
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3900[#3900])

==== Techniques

* Fixed: /etc/cron.d/rudder-agent is broken after launching cf-agent for
the first time until a generation of promises by Rudder server
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3908[#3908])

=== Release notes

This is a minor bug fix release in the 2.6 series and all installations
of 2.6.x should be upgraded when possible. This version of Rudder is in
stable and is already in use on several production platforms with
success. You are invited to upgrade all pre-2.6 installations to it as
soon as possible to enjoy the latest features with a still stable and
more polished version.

== Rudder 2.6.4 (2013-09-03)

=== Changes

==== Techniques

* Technique ``Group management'': make group creation optional
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3378[#3378])
* Technique ``Package management for RHEL / CentOS / (SuSE / RPM
systems'': Improve performances of the Technique
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3444[#3444])
* Technique ``Download From A Shared Folder'': Add possibility to set
SUID and SGID to files copied
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3115[#3115])

==== Documentation

* Add Documentation about workflow and change requests
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3577[#3577])
* Create a Technique library upgrade documentation
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3084[#3084])
* Create a usage handbook that summarize common usage scenarios in
Rudder (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3009[#3009])
* Explain how to migrate a server to another machine
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/2958[#2958])
* Add information about the rsync modules of rudder-project
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3831[#3831])

=== Bug fixes

==== Webapp - Administration

* Fixed: In the inventory promises, the local copy of the inventory
sometimes fails with a message saying it is corrupted
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3884[#3884])
* Fixed: Promises are not updated when running agent too often (< 5
minutes between 2 executions)
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3849[#3849])
* Fixed: Backport the git lock erase promise if older than 5 minutes
from 2.5 to 2.4
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3531[#3531])
* Fixed: The limit of the eventlog length (64chars) could lead to SQL
errors (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3883[#3883])

==== Webapp - CFEngine integration

* Fixed: The XML parser which check metadata.xml of the Techniques
display a wrong error message when the XML is malformed (Talk about
SECTION when it is due to INPUTS)
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3781[#3781])

==== Webapp - Node management

* Fixed: Add display name and search for unknown linux
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3841[#3841])
* Fixed: ``Rules to be applied'' in pending nodes doesn’t find Rules on
system groups (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3737[#3737])
* Fixed: Errors when accepting/refusing nodes are ignored
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3880[#3880])
* Fixed: Groups screen: Using storage criteria lead to an error caused
by the Unit format
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3872[#3872])
* Fixed: On node search, ``OR'' and ``include policy server'' leads to 0
results (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3866[#3866])
* Fixed: Error when deleting category
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3861[#3861])
* Fixed: On node search, regex filter on attribute not in node summary
is broken with ``OR''
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3853[#3853])
* Fixed: Add correct display name for Scientific Linux and Oracle Linux
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3839[#3839])

==== Inventory (webapp, Fusion)

* Fixed: Error when adding and deleting a node several times
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3887[#3887])
* Fixed: On unknown Linux, Rudder say Can’t merge inventory report in
LDAP directory, aborting
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3840[#3840])
* Fixed: Rudder doesn’t support Oracle Linux - Can’t merge inventory in
LDAP (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3834[#3834],
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3836[#3836],
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3837[#3837])
* Fixed: OS Full name should be queryable
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3835[#3835])

==== Packaging

* Fixed: Wrong dependency for rudder-agent package on SLES
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3882[#3882])
* Fixed: Rudder cron file contains error until the use of CFEngine and
will display error into /var/mail for root
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3654[#3654,]
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3894[#3894])
* Fixed: The rudder-agent cron file installed into debian folder by
Makefile during a build is not remove by ``make veryclean localclean''
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3856[#3856])
* Fixed: The Rudder agent post installation and removal scripts are not
cleaning things correctly
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3634[#3634],
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3896[#3896])
* Fixed: rudder-upgrade prints an unnecessary warning: ``WARNING: Some
event log are still based on an old file format (file format 1), please
upgrade first to 2.6 to make this migration''
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3865[#3865])
* Fixed: The logrotate file of Debian and Ubuntu is duplicated since the
name from the packaging is wrong
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3864[#3864])
* Fixed: /opt/rudder/bin/rudder-upgrade requires rsync but no package
depends on it (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3813[#3813])
* Fixed: The properties `history.inventories.enable' and
`ldap.inventories.removed.basedn' are missing the
/opt/rudder/etc/inventory-web after a migration from Rudder 2.3 and
`history.inventories.enable' is uslessly added into
/opt/rudder/etc/rudder-web.properties
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3810[#3810])
* Fixed: Error on Rudder about lack of RAM memory should be explicit
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3721[#3721])
* Fixed: The files written by syslog in /var/log/rudder/reports/*.log
and slapd in /var/log/rudder/ldap/slapd.log are still empty after a
logrotate (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3603[#3603])

==== Techniques

* Fixed: Technique "Package management for RHEL / CentOS / (SuSE / RPM
systems: Options could be clearer
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3793[#3793])
* Fixed: Technique ``Enforce a file content'' v3.0: Missing double quote
broke the generation of promises
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3811[#3811])
* Fixed: Techniques ``Package management for RHEL / CentOS / (SuSE / RPM
systems'' and ``Package management for Debian / Ubuntu / APT systems'':
Always report success, even on repair
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/1175[#1175],
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3816[#3816])
* Fixed: Technique ``Package management for RHEL / CentOS / (SuSE / RPM
systems'': Package installation using yum doesn’t work (RPM based
systems like Red Hat / CentOS)
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3815[#3815])
* Fixed: Technique ``Package management for RHEL / CentOS / (SuSE / RPM
systems'' v4.0: Technique uses wrong path for data file (3.0/…)
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3779[#3779])
* Fixed: Technique ``Sudo utility configuration'': Technique is not
correctly reporting when applied by multiple rules
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3870[#3870])

=== Contributors

Special thanks go out to the following individuals who invested time,
patience, testing, patches or bug reports to make this version of Rudder
better:

* Olivier Mauras
* Dennis Cabooter
* Michael Gliwinski (Henderson Group)
* Fabrice Flore-Thébault
* Jean Remond

=== Release notes

​This is a bug fix release in the 2.6 series. All installations of 2.6.x
should be upgraded when possible. This version of Rudder is in stable
and is already in use on several production platforms with success. You
are invited to upgrade all pre-2.6 installations to it as soon as
possible to enjoy the latest features with a still stable and more
polished version.

== Rudder 2.6.3 (2013-07-26)

=== Bug fixes

==== Techniques - Sys & init promise

* Use cron.d instead of the crontab to store Rudder cron entry (also in
initial promises)
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3731[#3731])
* Cron on RHEL/CentOS and Ubuntu nodes was not checked with initial
promises (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3730[#3730])

==== Logging

* Non compliant reports flood the Rudder logs on a new installation
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3655[#3655])
* Some debug logs information about concurrent access were wrong
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3641[#3641])

==== Inventory (webapp, Fusion)

* Rudder ignores IP aliases on network interfaces
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3669[#3669])

==== Webapp - Config management

* The Rudder variables in directive values only work with full value
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3689[#3689])
* CFEngine variables name in ``CFEngine Generic Variable Definition''
Directives no more support ``dot'' and need a migration script to
``undot'' existing ones
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3642[#3642])
* Screen ``Configuration Policy>Directives'': The buttons are ugly (not
rounded) (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3688[#3688])

==== Webapp - Node management

* ``Search nodes'' screen: After a first use of the search button, it is
no more clickable until a change (add/remove/modification) of criteria
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3639[#3639])
* Debug log when updating dynamic group is not clear
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3612[#3612])
* An error is displayed in the [WebUI](WebUI) +
and the logs when removing a node because of an inefficient current
action (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3517[#3517])

==== Webapp - Administration

* Change Request can’t be validated if it concerns groups
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3644[#3644])
* Change Request can’t be validated if there is trailing spaces in the
modified object
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3660[#3660])
* Screen ``Administration>Policy Server'': Buttons are broken after
first click on them
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3764[#3764])

==== Webapp - CFEngine integration

* Change Request could display error in the logs if its directive is
based on Techniques using fixed regex (IP, Mail)
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3759[#3759])
* Remove wrong imports in undot CFEngine variable script
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3746[#3746])
* Migration of some Directives version does not work if no modification
are made in the parameters with the message ``There are no modification
to save'' (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3732[#3732])

==== Miscellaneous

* Base64 entries are not supported by the migration script for 2.6
concerning the unescaping of directive contents
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3780[#3780])
* Build rudder-agent on SLES 10 is no more possible since the use of the
`T' flag with cp in our SOURCES/Makefile
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3678[#3678])
* Techniques using reporting based on file edition don’t have proper
reporting for kept status with CFEngine 3.4.x
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3618[#3618])
* The rudder-upgrade script could be very long to execute (>5min)
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3611[#3611])
* The script of initialization rudder-init.sh display an error message
if called with arguments
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3747[#3747])

==== Architecture - Tests

* Falacious test error in
[TestQuickSearchService](TestQuickSearchService) +
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3760[#3760])

==== Techniques

* Technique ``Enforce a file content'': Outdated comments about escaping
quotes (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3787[#3787])
* Double cron job for Rudder agent when upgrading from 2.5 to 2.6
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3681[#3681])
* Deleting packages on Red Hat / [CentOS](CentOS) +
doesn’t work (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3709[#3709])
* The reporting of ``Common Policies > Update'' could be in a `No
Answer' status
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3620[#3620])
* Technique ``APT package manager configuration'': It is very complex to
use (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/2277[#2277])

=== Changes

==== Techniques - Others

* Technique ``MOTD configuration'': Apply best practices
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3629[#3629])

==== Miscellaneous

* Add support for rudder-agent on RHEL / [CentOS](CentOS) +
3 (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3648[#3648])

==== Techniques

* Add new Technique: ``Generic CFEngine Command variable definition''
permitting to initialize CFEngine variables from the result of shell
commands (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3214[#3214])

=== Contributors

Special thanks go out to the following individuals who invested time,
patience, testing, patches or bug reports to make this version of Rudder
better:

* Dennis Cabooter

=== Release notes

This is a bug fix release in the 2.6 series. All installations of 2.6.x
should be upgraded when possible. This version is the new ``stable''
version and is already in use on several production platforms with
success. You are invited to upgrade all pre-2.6 installations to it as
soon as possible to enjoy the latest features with a still stable and
more polished version.

== Rudder 2.6.2 (2013-06-07)

=== Bug fixes

==== Inventory (webapp, Fusion)

* When a node has two interfaces with the same IP, it does not appear as
pending node in Rudder [WebUI](WebUI) +
and can’t be accepted
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3626[#3626])

==== Miscellaneous

* Cron on RHEL/CentOS nodes was restarted at every execution of CFEngine
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3609[#3609])
* The file tools/generate-map.sh to generate the documentation does not
work with bash
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3579[#3579])
* If rsyslog is installed after another syslog, rsyslog is never used on
SLES and reports will never be caught by Rudder server
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3569[#3569])
* During the first installation of rudder-agent, chmod is made on
nonexistent ppkeys of CFEngine
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3633[#3633])
* CFEngine display HTML outputs in shell via syslog
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3532[#3532])

==== Webapp - Node management

* Removing a Group don’t remove it from its related Rule and lead to
error messages until a cache clearing
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3621[#3621])
* Displaying list of nodes may timeout
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3617[#3617])
* It is not possible to add several nodes sharing the same IP from their
private network interface
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3625[#3625])
* Backport translation of datepickers from French (#3425) to branch 2.4
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3576[#3576])
* Persistent error messages using search nodes in Rudder
[WebUI](WebUI) +
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3512[#3512])
* Searching on Last Inventory Date is not working in Rudder 2.4
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3404[#3404])
* Search nodes should accept the ``m'' notation in memory size
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3345[#3345])
* No tooltip on Group page for Statis/Dynamic
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3597[#3597])

==== Webapp - Administration

* When restoring latest commit, no commit should be made
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3593[#3593])
* Reload latest commit through API is not working
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3607[#3607])
* Migration script for `Archives' entry in ldap is missing
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3590[#3590])
* Archives entry is missing in LDAP, leading to error when creating
Rules (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3587[#3587])
* System Rules/Directives/Groups should not be archivedr
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3585[#3585])

==== Webapp - Display, home page

* The notifications related to the Workflow are broken in low resolution
screens (1024*768)
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3601[#3601])
* Various Fixes
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3373[#3373])

==== Architecture - Dependencies

* Rudder is not building with maven2
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3637[#3637])
* Not specifying maven default repos lead to inconsistency in download
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3598[#3598])

==== Techniques

* Technique [OpenSSH](OpenSSH) +
Server v2.0: Reporting for SSH port configuration Component Key is not
functional if port are not defined
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3247[#3247])
* CFEngine internal database verification should depend on the CFEngine
version as [BerkeleyDB](BerkeleyDB) +
is no more used since Rudder 2.6
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3570[#3570])
* Technique ``Generic Variable Definition'': The regexp to check
variable name doesn’t work
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3599[#3599])
* Technique ``Download a file from the shared folder'': Posthook reports
is missing if the copy fails
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3583[#3583])
* When using rsyslog with a version > 5.7.1 on the server, some reports
may be dropped, leading to [NoAnswer](NoAnswer) +
on the server (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3604[#3604])
* Technique ``Download a file from the shared folder'': When error
happens some logs are duplicated
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3582[#3582])
* Technique ``Download A File'': The inputs of the Technique are not
checked by regexp to prevent wrong URL or destination format
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3539[#3539])

=== Contributors

Special thanks go out to the following individuals who invested time,
patience, testing, patches or bug reports to make this version of Rudder
better:

* Dennis Cabooter

=== Release notes

This is a bug fix release in the 2.6 series. All installations of 2.6.x
should be upgraded when possible. This version is not yet marked
``stable'' but it is already in use on several production platforms with
success. You are invited to upgrade all pre-2.6 installations to 2.6 as
soon as possible to enjoy the latest features with a still stable and
more polished version.

== Rudder 2.6.1 (2013-05-27)

=== Bug fixes

==== Webapp - Administration

* Display missing information about plugins again
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3594[#3594])

==== Webapp - Config management

* Don’t try to display pending Change requests when workflows are
disabled (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3518[#3518])

==== Miscellaneous

* LDAP check at webapp start will now correctly check all entries
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3588[#3588],
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3589[#3589])
* rudder-agent package dependencies broken on SLES11 (libtokyocabinet is
bundled in the package so should not be a dependency)
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3586[#3586])

==== Techniques

* The Technique `userManagement' v1.0 was misconfigured to use password
hashes, leading to error on upgrade
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3595[#3595])
* The Technique `Copy file from shared folder' v1.3 sends no reports
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3580[#3580])
* The Technique `sshConfiguration' v2.0 is now correctly following
conventions (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3236[#3236])

=== Changes

=== Release notes

This is a bug fix release in the 2.6 series. All installations of 2.6.x
should be upgraded when possible. This version is not yet marked
``stable'' but it is already in use on several production platforms with
success. You are invited to upgrade all pre-2.6 installations to 2.6 as
soon as possible to enjoy the latest features with a still stable and
more polished version.

== Rudder 2.6.0 (2013-04-30)

=== Bug fixes

==== Webapp - Config management

* When workflow and change message are disabled, there is a popup to
confirm change
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3504[#3504])

==== Webapp - Administration

* ``Reload Techniques'' button should be named more expressively
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3554[#3554])
* Change Request event logs created even when change requests are
disabled (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3553[#3553])
* On change request page, no menus are highlighted
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3508[#3508])

==== Webapp - Node management

* Descriptions of system and special groups are not up to date
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3552[#3552])

==== Webapp - Config management

* Translate selection of date (datepicker) in English
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3425[#3425])

==== Miscellaneous

* The new passwordhash types are not usable in Rudder
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3556[#3556])

==== Techniques

* The 2.6 cf-lock erasing promise does not work on (TokyoCabinet
databases (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3564[#3564])
* The checkGenericFileContent 3.2 Technique is broken
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3562[#3562])
* Cron still restarts all the time
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3561[#3561])
* Technique ``User management'': Permit to update /etc/shadow directly
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3461[#3461])

=== Changes

==== Webapp - Administration

* Add a new default user
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3519[#3519])

=== Release notes

This version of Rudder is a final release. We have tested it thoroughly
on production systems and believe it to be free of any major bugs.
However, this version is not marked ``stable'' (unlike previous final
versions), since it has not proven to be reliable on production systems
over time yet. The current ``stable'' release is still 2.4.*.

== Rudder 2.6.0~rc1 (2013-04-26)

=== Bug fixes

==== Webapp - Config management

* Regenerate now make pending rule change request invalid
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3548[#3548])
* System groups are not in the list of target groups
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3547[#3547])
* delete a rule after modification
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3521[#3521])
* There is some missing code in workflow!
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3514[#3514])
* Add an icon for change requests
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3511[#3511])
* Remove `are you sure you want to X this Y' message
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3510[#3510])
* There is no success popup on directive/rule/group creation
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3509[#3509])
* Help tooltip in directive form do not work anymore
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3498[#3498])
* Missing message warning about a pending change request on an item
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3483[#3483])
* ``Delete'' button in directive forms is not correctly placed
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3418[#3418])
* When creating a rule, we can’t select the system groups
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3410[#3410])

==== Webapp - Administration

* Utilities menu is not shown without workflow
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3530[#3530])
* Choice reset if there is an error in next step popup
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3507[#3507])
* when clicking update on a change request, an event is created (and
logged) even if nothing occurs.
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3503[#3503])
* Small corrections on workflow system
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3484[#3484])
* Downloading archive is not possible
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3472[#3472])
* On popup to change workflow step, cancelling display the success popup
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3469[#3469])
* On new Rudder server workflow are enabled
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3441[#3441])

==== Miscellaneous

* rudder-agent RPM packages don’t require the right 32/64 bit
dependencies (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3546[#3546])
* Use the service utility in the RPM packaging (Prepare systemd / Fedora
compliance) (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3544[#3544])
* chmod on /var/rudder/cfengine-community/ppkeys fails if directory does
not yet exist (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3542[#3542])
* RPM packages: upgrades from one major branch to another don’t always
work because of the Epoch field
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3535[#3535])
* During migration from 2.5.1 to 2.6.0 nightly, the LDAP server could
sometimes not be contacted and the script rudder-upgrade can’t be
properly applied
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3528[#3528],
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3550[#3550])
* The migration script in 2.6 is not convergeant
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3516[#3516])
* Upgrading rudder-agent from 2.4.4 to 2.6.0 nightly lead to having an
error from CFEngine because of permissions of directories
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3515[#3515])
* rudder-upgrade.sh uses a broken grep to migrate
rudder.autoDeployOnModification
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3513[#3513])
* The rudder-webapp packages has a broken debian/rules Makefile
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3506[#3506])
* rudder-init.sh uses the wrong path for cf-agent on the 2.6 version
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3496[#3496])
* Error on migration about escaping directive in migration script
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3527[#3527])

==== Webapp - Display, home page

* When popups are too tall or too wide, they are not displayed correctly
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3465[#3465])

==== Webapp - Node management

* After deleting a group, the form of that group is still open
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3524[#3524])

==== Architecture - Refactoring

* Modification of technique library were not registered in LDAP anymore
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3466[#3466])

==== Techniques

* The PASSWORDHASH metadata entry does not allow to use glibc-like
SHA/MD hashes (https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3497[#3497])
* The 1.2 version of aptPackageInstallation should follow the best
practices for Technique redaction
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3491[#3491])
* The userManagement Technique is broken on 2.6
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3473[#3473])
* Several Techniques are missing package_patch_command
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3487[#3487])

=== Changes

==== Webapp - Administration

* Prevent workflow self Validation/Deployment
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3500[#3500])
* Link Event logs to the change request that generate them
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3474[#3474])
* Improve change request owner
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3455[#3455])
* Improve User authorization for workflow
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3440[#3440])

==== Webapp - Node management

* Add workflow for groups
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3442[#3442])

==== Miscellaneous

* Upgrade docs for 2.6
(https://issues.rudder.io/issues/3447[#3447])

=== Release notes

This version is a release candidate, and contains many bug fixes sinces
2.6.0~beta1. We have tested it and believe it to be free of any critical
bugs. The use on production systems is not encouraged at this time and
is at your own risk. However, we do encourage testing, and welcome all
and any feedback!

== Rudder 2.6.0~beta1 (2013-04-12)

=== Changes

==== Agent

* Upgrade CFEngine to 3.4.x ( #2519)
* Make Rudder agent update its promises only if
rudder_promises_generated file is not up to date in order to save
resources ( #3426 , #3429)

==== Core

* Update to Scala 2.10.1 ( #3229 #3354) and Lift 2.5-rc2 ( #3355)
* Automatically escape quotes in directives ( #2947)

==== UI

* Add validation workflows for configuration related change request
#3231)
* Be able to have hideable sections in the Directive display ( #3290)
* Add a password hashing input field type in Directive ( #3282)
* Add a page listing all nodes accepted in Rudder ( #3303)
* Added separate columns for OS type, name, version, service pack, and
last report received in the search node tool ( #3296)
* Have a group containing all nodes ( #3273)
* Improve directive management display ( #2950)
* Rudder 2.6 logo ( #3408)
* Inform user that Javascript must be enabled to use Rudder ( #3184)

==== System integration

* Log information about registered properties when Rudder starts #3357)

=== Release notes

This software is in beta status and contains a lots of new features. We
have tested it and believe it to be free of any critical bugs. The use
on production systems is not encouraged at this time and is at your own
risk. However, we do encourage testing, and welcome all and any
feedback!
